PS-8065 Document encryption UDFs for OpenSSL (8.0) (#4678)
percona/percona-server: doc/source/security/encryption-functions.rst

.. _encryption-functions:

===============================================================================
Encryption functions
===============================================================================

> Percona Server for MySQL 8.0.28-19 added encryption functions. These functions may take an algorithm argument. Encryption converts plaintext into ciphertext using a key and an encryption algorithm. The ciphertext, or encrypted text, can be decrypted by using the same key and algorithm.

Reviewer: Most probably this is going to be the next `dash` release `-20`

Author: removing the decrypting part.

A digest uses plaintext and generates a hash value. This hash value can verify if the plaintext is unmodified but you cannot decrypt the original text from the hash value.

> 

Reviewer: You can also use sign/verify on digests to make sure that the original plaintext was not modified

Author: Added.

> When choosing key lengths, consider the following:

Reviewer: Please, mention that these functions are available after installing `component_encryption_udf` component.
`INSTALL COMPONENT 'file://component_encryption_udf';`
The user-defined functions are auto-registered, no need to invoke `CREATE FUNCTION ... SONAME ...`

Also, thresholds variables are also auto-registered when the component is installed (see below).

Uninstalling: `UNINSTALL COMPONENT 'file://component_encryption_udf';`

Author: Added.

Author: Added.

> 

Reviewer: A few notices about how we should refer to function parameters / return values:
plain text - strings
RSA/DSA/DH private/public keys, DH parameters - strings in PEM format
digests, cipher texts, signatures, symmetric keys(calculated from DH parts) - binary strings

Author: Fixed.

* Encryption strength increases the key size and, also, the key generation time.

* If performance is important and the functions are frequently used, use symmetric encryption. Symmetric encryption functions are faster than asymmetric encryption functions.

The following table and sections describe the functions. For examples, see :ref:`function-examples`.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Function Name
   * - :ref:`asym-decrypt`
   * - :ref:`asym-derive`
   * - :ref:`asym-encrypt`
   * - :ref:`asym-sign`
   * - :ref:`asym-verify`
   * - :ref:`create-priv-key`
   * - :ref:`create-pub-key`
   * - :ref:`create-dh-param`
   * - :ref:`create-digest`

> 

Reviewer: Functions never return NULLs.
In exceptional cases, MySQL errors are reported

Author: Updated.

Author: Removed NULLs

.. _asym-decrypt:

asymmetric_decrypt(*algorithm, crypt_str, key_str*)
-----------------------------------------------------------

Decrypts an encrypted string using the algorithm and a key string. 

.. rubric:: Returns

> A plaintext as a binary string. A failure returns a NULL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A plaintext as a string.
```

Author: Updated.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The following are the function's parameters:

* algorithm - encryption algorithm used to encrypt the string. Supports `RSA`. 

* key_str - a string in the PEM format. The key string must be the following:

  - Valid

  - Public or private key string that corresponds with the public or private key string used with the :ref:`asymmetric_encrypt<asym-encrypt>` function.

.. _asym-derive:

asymmetric_derive(pub_key_str, priv_key_str)
------------------------------------------------------------

Derives a symmetric key using a public key generated on one side and a private key generated on another.

.. rubric:: Returns

> A key as a binary sting. A failure returns a NULL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A key as a binary sting.
```

.. rubric:: Parameters

The ``pub_key_str`` must be a in the PEM format and generated using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) algorithm.

The ``priv_key_str`` must be a in the PEM format and generated using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) algorithm.

.. _asym-encrypt:

asymmetric_encrypt(algorithm, str, key_str)
--------------------------------------------------------------

Encrypts a string using the algorithm and a key string. 

.. rubric:: Returns

> A ciphertext as a binary string. A failure returns a NULL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ciphertext as a binary string.
```

Author: removed.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - encryption algorithm used to encrypt the string. Supports `RSA`. 

* str - measured in bytes, the length of the string must not be greater than the key_str length - 11

> * key_str - a string in the PEM format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* key_str - a key (either private or public) in the PEM format
```

Author: Updated.

.. _asym-sign:

asymmetric_sign(algorithm, digest_str, priv_key_str, digest_type)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Signs a digest string using a private key string. 

.. rubric:: Returns

> A signature as a binary string. A failure returns a NULL.

Reviewer: ```suggestrion
A signature as a binary string.
```

Author: Updated

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA' or 'DSA'.

> * digest_str - the digest string that is signed. The string can be generated by invoking :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* digest_str - the digest binary string that is signed. The string can be generated by invoking :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>`.
```

Author: Updated.

* priv_key_str - the private key used to sign the digest string. The key must be in the PEM format. 

> * digest_type - the supported values are 'SHA224', 'SHA256', 'SHA384', and 'SHA512'.

Reviewer: The same list of digests is supported as in the `create_digest()` function.

Author: Updated.

.. _asym-verify:

asymmetric_verify(algorithm, digest_str, sig_str, pub_key_str, digest_type)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Verifies whether the signature string matches the digest string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A ``1`` (success) or a ``0`` (failure).

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

> * algorithm - The supported values are 'RSA' or 'DSA'.

Reviewer 2: The -> the

Author: redone

> * digest_str - the digest string and this string can be generated by invoking :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* digest_str - the digest binary string and this string can be generated by invoking :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>`.
```

Author: Updated.

> * sig_str - the signature string and this string can be generated by invoking :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* sig_str - the signature binary string and this string can be generated by invoking :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>`.
```

Author: updated

* pub_key_str - the signer's public key string. This string must correspond to the private key passed to :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>` to generate the signature string. The string must be in the PEM format.

> * digest_type - The supported values are 'SHA224', 'SHA256', 'SHA384', and 'SHA512'.

Reviewer 2: The -> the

Author: Completely rewritten

.. _create-priv-key:

> create_asymmetric_priv_key(algorithm, (key_len | dh_secret))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create_asymmetric_priv_key(algorithm, (key_len | dh_parameters))
```

Author: Fixed

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Generates a private key using the given algorithm and key length or Diffie-Hellman (DH) secret. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generates a private key using the given algorithm and key length (for RSA, DSA) or Diffie-Hellman parameters (for DH) . 
```

Author: Updated.

.. rubric:: Returns

> The key as a binary string in PEM format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key as a string in PEM format.
```

Author: Fixed.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA','DSA', or 'DH'.

> * key_len - The supported key length values:

Reviewer 2: The -> the

Author: redone

>   - For RSA - The minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 16,384.

Reviewer 2: The -> the

Author: redone

>   - For DSA - the minium length is 1,024. The maximum length is 10,000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For DSA - the minium length is 1,024. The maximum length is 9,984.
```

Author: Fixed.

>   .. note:: The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. Server administrators can set the following environmental variables when the server starts to limit the maximum key length:

Reviewer: Here and everywhere
`environmental variables` => `encryption_udf.xxx system variables`

Author: Updated.

>     * MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_DSA_BITS_THRESHOLD - Maximum DSA key length, in bits, for :ref:`create-priv-key`

Reviewer: Instead of environment variables we have MySQL system variables automatically registered when `component_encryption_udf` is installed
Those are
encryption_udf.rsa_bits_threshold
encryption_udf.dsa_bits_threshold
encryption_udf.dh_bits_threshold
They must be documented as MySQL variables

Author: Where can I find this information?

    * MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_RSA_BITS_THRESHOLD - Maximum RSA key length, in bits, for :ref:`create-priv-key`

    Each value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum key length value. 

> * dh_secret - a Diffie-Hellman (DH) secret. You can create a DH secret with the :ref:`create-dh-parameter<create-dh-param>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* dh_parameters - Diffie-Hellman (DH) parameters. You can create DH parameters with the :ref:`create-dh-parameter<create-dh-param>`.
```

Author: Updated.

.. _create-pub-key:

create_asymmetric_pub_key(algorithm, priv_key_str)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Derives a public key from the given private key using the given algorithm.

.. rubric:: Returns

> The key as a binary string. A failure returns a NULL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key as a string in PEM format.
```

Author: Updated.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA','DSA', or 'DH'.

* priv_key_str - must be a valid key string in the PEM format.

.. _create-dh-param:

create_dh_parameters(key_len)
--------------------------------------

> Creates secrets for generating a Diffie-Hellman (DH) private/public key pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates parameters for generating a Diffie-Hellman (DH) private/public key pair.
```

Author: Fixed.

.. rubric:: Returns

> A binary string and the string can be passed to :ref:`create-asymmetric-private-key<create-priv-key>`. A failure returns a NULL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A string in PEM format, can be passed to :ref:`create-asymmetric-private-key<create-priv-key>`.
```

Author: Updated.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* key_len - The supported key length values are the following:

>   - RSA - The minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 16,384.

Reviewer: remove, only DH here

Author: Updated.

>   - DSA - the minium length is 1,024. The maximum length is 10,000.

Reviewer: remove, only DH here

Author: Updated.

>   .. note:: Generating DH keys can take much longer than generating RSA keys.The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. Server administrators can set the following environmental variable when the server starts to limit the maximum key length:

Reviewer: Here and everywhere
`environmental variables` => `encryption_udf.xxx system variables`

Author: Updated.

>     * MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_DH_BITS_THRESHOLD - Maximum DH key length, in bits, for :ref:`create-dh-params`

Reviewer: `encryption_udf.dh_bits_threshold` system variable

Author: Updated.

    The value takes precedence over the OPENSSL maximum length value. 

.. _create-digest:

create_digest(digest_type, str)
--------------------------------------------

Creates a digest from the given string using the given digest type. The digest string can be used with :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>` and :ref:`asymmetric_verify<asym-verify>`.

.. rubric:: Returns

> The digest as a given string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The digest of the given string as a binary string
```

Author: Updated.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

> * digest_type - The supported values are 'SHA224', 'SHA256', 'SHA384', and 'SHA512'.

Reviewer: The supported values are the following:
OpenSSL 1.0.2:
'MD5'
'SHA1'

'SHA224'
'SHA256'
'SHA384'
'SHA512'

'MD4'
'RIPEMD160'

OpenSSL 1.1.x addition:
'BLAKE2B512'
'BLAKE2S256'
'RIPEMD'
'RMD160'
'SHAKE128'
'SHAKE256'
'SM3'
'WHIRLPOOL'

Author: Added

* str - String used to generate the digest string.

.. _function-examples:

.. rubric:: Examples

The following example creates a private key, creates a public key, encrypts data, and decrypts data.

.. code-block:: mysql
 
    -- Create private key

>     SET @private-key = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 3072);

Reviewer: hyphens are not allowed in MySQL variable names (use underscores instead)
so
```suggestion
    SET @private_key = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 3072);
```

Author: updated

    -- Create public key

>     SET @public-key = create_asymmetric_pub_key('RSA', 3072);

Reviewer: hyphens are not allowed in MySQL variable names (use underscores instead)

Author: Fixed.

    -- Encrypt data using the private key (you can also use the public key)

>     SET @ciphertext = asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', 'This text is secret', @private-key);

Reviewer: hyphens are not allowed in MySQL variable names (use underscores instead)

Author: Updated.

    -- Decrypt data using the public key (you can also use the private key)

>     SET plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', @ciphertext, @public-key);

Reviewer: hyphens are not allowed in MySQL variable names (use underscores instead)

Author: updated

The following example generates a digest, generates a digest signature, and verifies the signature against the digest:

.. code-block:: mysql

   -- Generate a digest string
   SET @digest = create_digest('SHA256', 'This is the text for digest');

   -- Generate a digest signature 

>    SET @signature = asymmetric_sign('RSA', @digest, @private-key, 'SHA256');

Reviewer: hyphens are not allowed in MySQL variable names (use underscores instead)

Author: Updated.

   -- Verify the signature against the digest

>    SET @verify-signature = asymmetric_verify('RSA', @digest, @signature, @public-key, 'SHA256');

Reviewer: hyphens are not allowed in MySQL variable names (use underscores instead)

Author: Updated.

> 

Reviewer: Here `@verify_signature` must be equal to `1`

Author: Added.

The following examples create a symmetric keys using Diffie-Hellman secrets.

.. code-block:: mysql

   -- Generate a DH secret

>    SET @dh-secret = create_dh_parameters(3072);

Reviewer: Here and below:
1. `dh_secret` -> `dh_parameters`
2. underscores instead of hyphens in the MySQL variable names

Author: Fixed.

   -- Generate DH key pairs 
   SET @private-1 = create_asymmetric_priv_key('DH', @dh-secret);
   SET @public-1 = create_asymmetric_pub_key('DH', @private-1);
   SET @private-2 = create_asymmetric_priv_key('DH', @dh-secret);
   SET @public-2 = create_asymmetric_pub_key('DH', @private-2);

  -- Generate a symmetric key using the public-1 and private-2
  SET symmetric-1 = asymmetric_derive(@public-1, @private-2);

  -- Generate a symmetric key using the public-2 and private-1
  SET symmetric-2 = asymmetric_derive(@public-2, @private-1);

> 

Reviewer: Here `@symmetric1` must be identical to `@symmetric2`

Author: Added.

.. _encryption-functions:

===============================================================================
Encryption functions
===============================================================================

Percona Server for MySQL 8.0.28-20 adds encryption functions and variables to manage the encryption range. The functions may take an algorithm argument. Encryption converts plaintext into ciphertext using a key and an encryption algorithm.

A digest uses plaintext and generates a hash value. This hash value can verify if the plaintext is unmodified. You can also sign or verify on digests to ensure that the original plaintext was not modified. You cannot decrypt the original text from the hash value.

When choosing key lengths, consider the following:

> * Encryption strength increases the key size and, also, the key generation time.

Reviewer 3: Encryption strength increases "with" the key size ...

Author: Added.

* key_str - a string in the PEM format. The key string must be the following:

  - Valid

  - Public or private key string that corresponds with the private or public key string used with the :ref:`asymmetric_encrypt<asym-encrypt>` function.

.. _asym-derive:

asymmetric_derive(*pub_key_str, priv_key_str*)
------------------------------------------------------------

Derives a symmetric key using a public key generated on one side and a private key generated on another.

.. rubric:: Returns

A key as a binary sting.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The ``pub_key_str`` must be a public key in the PEM format and generated using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) algorithm.

The ``priv_key_str`` must be a private key in the PEM format and generated using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) algorithm.

.. _asym-encrypt:

asymmetric_encrypt(*algorithm, str, key_str*)
--------------------------------------------------------------

Encrypts a string using the algorithm and a key string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A ciphertext as a binary string.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - encryption algorithm used to encrypt the string. Supports `RSA`.

> * str - measured in bytes, the length of the string must not be greater than the key_str modulus length in bytes - 11

Reviewer 3: maybe useful to mention why we are subtracting eleven. Inside brackets we can add this information.

11 (random bytes used for padding). Please check with Yura before adding.

Reviewer: Good idea. I would say `11 (additional bytes used for PKCS1 padding)`

Author: Done

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA' or 'DSA'.

* digest_str - the digest binary string and this string can be generated by invoking :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>`.

* sig_str - the signature binary string. This string can be generated by invoking :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>`.

* pub_key_str - the signer's public key string. This string must correspond to the private key passed to :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>` to generate the signature string. The string must be in the PEM format.

* digest_type - the supported values are listed in the :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>` digest type table.

.. _create-priv-key:

create_asymmetric_priv_key(*algorithm, (key_len | dh_parameters)*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Generates a private key using the given algorithm and key length for RSA or DSA or Diffie-Hellman parameters (for DH).

.. rubric:: Returns

The key as a string in PEM format.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA','DSA', or 'DH'.

* key_len - the supported key length values are the following:

>   - RSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 16,384.

Reviewer 3: Mention the default value of the variable for RSA and DSA

Author: What is the default value?

Reviewer 3: For RSA the default value is: 16,384
For DSA the default value is: 9,984
For DH, the default value is: 10,000

>   - DSA - the minium length is 1,024. The maximum length is 9,984.

Reviewer 3: Fix spelling "minimum"

Author: Fixed.

    .. note:: The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. To change the maximum key length, use either :ref:`rsa-threshold` or :ref:`dsa-threshold`.

* dh_parameters - a Diffie-Hellman (DH) parameter. You can create DH parameters with the :ref:`create-dh-parameter<create-dh-param>`.

.. _create-pub-key:

create_asymmetric_pub_key(*algorithm, priv_key_str*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Derives a public key from the given private key using the given algorithm.

.. rubric:: Returns

The key as a string in PEM format.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA','DSA', or 'DH'.

* priv_key_str - must be a valid key string in the PEM format.

.. _create-dh-param:

create_dh_parameters(*key_len*)
--------------------------------------

Creates parameters for generating a Diffie-Hellman (DH) private/public key pair.

.. rubric:: Returns

A string in PEM format and can be passed to :ref:`create-asymmetric-private-key<create-priv-key>`.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

> * key_len - the range for the key length is from 1024 to 10000. The default value is 10000.

Reviewer 3: Maybe use "commas" for numbering here as well for consistency. As on line no. 187,185

Author: Done.

>   .. note:: Generating DH keys can take more time than generating RSA or DSA keys. The parameter length limits are defined by OpenSSL. To change the maxium parameter length, use :ref:`dh-threshold`.

Reviewer 3: Fix the spelling of "maximum"

Author: Fixed.

        - Value Name for OpenSSL 1.1.x addition
      * - 'MD5'
        - 'BLAKE2B512'
      * - 'SHA1'
        - 'BLAKE2S256'
      * - 'SHA224'
        - 'RIPEMD'
      * - 'SHA256'
        - 'RMD160'
      * - 'SHA384'
        - 'SHAKE128'
      * - 'SHA512'
        - 'SHAKE256'
      * - 'MD4'
        - 'SM3'
      * - 'RIPEMD160'
        - 'WHIRLPOOL'

* str - String used to generate the digest string.

.. _encryption-variables:

.. rubric:: Encryption threshold variables

The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. Server administrators can set the following MySQL system variables when the server starts to limit the maximum key length. The following variables are automatically registered when `component_encryption_udf` is installed.

Setting the global variable as a runtime value requires either the `SYSTEM_VARIABLES_ADMIN <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/privileges-provided.html#priv_system-variables-admin>`__ or the deprecated `SUPER <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/privileges-provided.html#priv_super>`__ privilege.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Variable Name
   * - :ref:`dh-threshold`

.. _dh-threshold:

> .. rubric:: ``encryption_udf.dh_bit_threshold``

Reviewer 3: Fix variable name: encryption_udf.dh_bits_threshold

Author: Added "s"

> These variable sets the threshold limits for the :ref:`create-dh-param`. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.

Reviewer 3: Maybe write:
These "variables set" the threshold. This comment is optional.

Author: Fixed.

Reviewer 3: I think it is missed.

Author: Odd. Fixed again.

Reviewer 3: Looks like still not fixed :(

Author: Not sure where you are looking. Updated.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer
   * - default
     - 10000

The range for this variable is from 1024 to 10000.

.. _dsa-threshold:

.. rubric:: `encryption_udf.dsa_bits_threshold`

These variable sets the threshold limits for :ref:`asymmetric_encrypt <asym-encrypt>`. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer

> 

Author: Removed

> 

Reviewer 3: * - default
   - 9984
   
   Please add this row for encryption_udf.dsa_bits_threshold

Author: Added.

The range for this variable is from 1024 to 9984.

.. _rsa-threshold:

> .. rubric:: `encryption_udf.rsa_bit_threshold`

Reviewer 3: Fix variable name: encryption_udf.rsa_bits_threshold

Author: fixed.

    -- Create private key
    mysql> SET @private_key = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 3072);

    -- Create public key
    mysql> SET @public_key = create_asymmetric_pub_key('RSA', @private_key);

    -- Encrypt data using the private key (you can also use the public key)
    mysql> SET @ciphertext = asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', 'This text is secret', @private_key);

    -- Decrypt data using the public key (you can also use the private key)
    -- The decrypted value @plaintext should be identical to the original 'This text is secret'
    mysql> SET @plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', @ciphertext, @public_key);

The following example generates a digest, generates a digest signature, and verifies the signature against the digest:

.. code-block:: mysql

   -- Generate a digest string
   mysql> SET @digest = create_digest('SHA256', 'This is the text for digest');

   -- Generate a digest signature
   mysql> SET @signature = asymmetric_sign('RSA', @digest, @private_key, 'SHA256');

   -- Verify the signature against the digest
   -- The @verify_signature must be equal to 1
   mysql> SET @verify_signature = asymmetric_verify('RSA', @digest, @signature, @public_key, 'SHA256');

> The following examples create a symmetric keys using Diffie-Hellman parameters.

Reviewer 3: The following example creates symmetric keys using Diffie-Hellman parameters.

Author: Updated.

.. _encryption-functions:

===============================================================================
Encryption functions
===============================================================================

> Percona Server for MySQL 8.0.28-19 adds encryption functions and variables to manage the encryption range. The functions may take an algorithm argument. Encryption converts plaintext into ciphertext using a key and an encryption algorithm. 

Reviewer: This is almost decided now - the feature will be released in `8.0.28-20`

Author: Updated to 8.0.28-20

> A digest uses plaintext and generates a hash value. This hash value can verify if the plaintext is unmodified. You can also sign or verify on digests to ensure that the original plaintext was not modified.  You cannot decrypt the original text from the hash value.

Reviewer 2: was not modified.  You cannot - remove an extra space

Author: fixed

   * - :ref:`rsa-threshold`

.. _install-functions:

Install `component_encryption_udf`
-------------------------------------------------

Use the `Install Component Statement <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/install-component.html>`__ to add the `component_encryption_udf` component. The functions and variables are available. The user-defined functions are auto-registered. There is no requirement to invoke ``CREATE FUNCTION ... SONAME ...``. Also, the :ref:`encryption-variables` are auto-registered when the component is installed.

The following is an example of the installation command:

.. code-block:: mysql

    mysql> INSTALL COMPONENT 'file://component_encryption_udf';

.. _asym-decrypt:

asymmetric_decrypt(*algorithm, crypt_str, key_str*)
-----------------------------------------------------------

Decrypts an encrypted string using the algorithm and a key string. 

.. rubric:: Returns

A plaintext as a string.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The following are the function's parameters:

* algorithm - encryption algorithm used to encrypt the string. Supports `RSA`. 

* key_str - a string in the PEM format. The key string must be the following:

  - Valid

>   - Public or private key string that corresponds with the public or private key string used with the :ref:`asymmetric_encrypt<asym-encrypt>` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Public or private key string that corresponds with the private or public key string used with the :ref:`asymmetric_encrypt<asym-encrypt>` function.
```

Author: Updated.

* sig_str - the signature binary string. This string can be generated by invoking :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>`.

* pub_key_str - the signer's public key string. This string must correspond to the private key passed to :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>` to generate the signature string. The string must be in the PEM format.

* digest_type - the supported values are listed in the :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>` digest type table.

.. _create-priv-key:

create_asymmetric_priv_key(*algorithm, (key_len | dh_parameters)*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Generates a private key using the given algorithm and key length for RSA or DSA or Diffie-Hellman parameters (for DH). 

.. rubric:: Returns

The key as a string in PEM format.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA','DSA', or 'DH'.

* key_len - the supported key length values are the following:

  - RSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 16,384.

  - DSA - the minium length is 1,024. The maximum length is 9,984.

>     .. note:: The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. To change the key lengths, use either :ref:`rsa-threshold` or :ref:`dsa-threshold`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. note:: The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. To change the max key lengths, use either :ref:`rsa-threshold` or :ref:`dsa-threshold`.
```

Author: Updated.

.. _encryption-functions:

===============================================================================
Encryption functions
===============================================================================

Percona Server for MySQL 8.0.28-20 adds encryption functions and variables to manage the encryption range. The functions may take an algorithm argument. Encryption converts plaintext into ciphertext using a key and an encryption algorithm.

> You can also use the user-defined functions with externally generated PEM format keys generated by the OpenSSL utility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the user-defined functions with keys in PEM format generated externally by the OpenSSL utility.
```

A digest uses plaintext and generates a hash value. This hash value can verify if the plaintext is unmodified. You can also sign or verify on digests to ensure that the original plaintext was not modified. You cannot decrypt the original text from the hash value.

When choosing key lengths, consider the following:

* Encryption strength increases with the key size and, also, the key generation time.

> * If performance is important and the functions are frequently used, use symmetric encryption. Symmetric encryption functions are faster than asymmetric encryption functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If performance is important and the functions are frequently used, use symmetric encryption. Symmetric encryption functions are faster than asymmetric encryption functions. Moreover, asymmetric encryption has restriction on the max length of a message being encrypted (for instance, for 'RSA'  algorithm max message size is key length in bytes (key length in bits / 8) minus 11)
```

Author: Added

.. rubric:: Parameters

The ``pub_key_str`` must be a public key in the PEM format and generated using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) algorithm.

The ``priv_key_str`` must be a private key in the PEM format and generated using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) algorithm.

.. _asym-encrypt:

asymmetric_encrypt(*algorithm, str, key_str*)
--------------------------------------------------------------

Encrypts a string using the algorithm and a key string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A ciphertext as a binary string.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - encryption algorithm used to encrypt the string. Supports `RSA`.

* str - measured in bytes, the length of the string must not be greater than the key_str modulus length in bytes - 11

* key_str - a key (either private or public) in the PEM format

.. _asym-sign:

asymmetric_sign(*algorithm, digest_str, priv_key_str, digest_type*)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Signs a digest string using a private key string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A signature is a binary string.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA' or 'DSA'.

> * digest_str - the digest binary string that is signed. The string can be generated by invoking :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>`.

Reviewer 3: Please replace "-" with an underscore "_" in the function name **create_digest**

Reviewer: @mohitj1988 I believe this one is OK as this is an internal tag used for referencing.

Author: all dashes changed to underscores

* priv_key_str - the private key used to sign the digest string. The key must be in the PEM format.

> * digest_type - the supported values are listed in the :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>` digest type table.

Reviewer 3: Please replace "-" with an underscore "_" in the function name **create_digest**

Reviewer: likewise

Author: all dashes changed to underscores

.. _asym-verify:

asymmetric_verify(*algorithm, digest_str, sig_str, pub_key_str, digest_type*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Verifies whether the signature string matches the digest string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A ``1`` (success) or a ``0`` (failure).

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA' or 'DSA'.

> * digest_str - the digest binary string and this string can be generated by invoking :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>`.

Reviewer 3: Please replace "-" with an underscore "_" in the function name **create_digest**

Author: all dashes changed to underscores

* sig_str - the signature binary string. This string can be generated by invoking :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>`.

* pub_key_str - the signer's public key string. This string must correspond to the private key passed to :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>` to generate the signature string. The string must be in the PEM format.

> * digest_type - the supported values are listed in the :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>` digest type table.

Reviewer 3: Please replace "-" with an underscore "_" in the function name **create_digest**

Author: all dashes changed to underscores

.. _create-priv-key:

create_asymmetric_priv_key(*algorithm, (key_len | dh_parameters)*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Generates a private key using the given algorithm and key length for RSA or DSA or Diffie-Hellman parameters (for DH).

.. rubric:: Returns

The key as a string in PEM format.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA','DSA', or 'DH'.

* key_len - the supported key length values are the following:

  - RSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 16,384. The default value is 16,384.

  - DSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 9,984. The default value is 9,984.

    .. note:: The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. To change the maximum key length, use either :ref:`rsa-threshold` or :ref:`dsa-threshold`.

> * dh_parameters - a Diffie-Hellman (DH) parameter. You can create DH parameters with the :ref:`create-dh-parameter<create-dh-param>`.

Reviewer 3: Replace create-dh-parameter => create_dh_parameter

Author: all dashes changed to underscores

.. _create-pub-key:

create_asymmetric_pub_key(*algorithm, priv_key_str*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Derives a public key from the given private key using the given algorithm.

.. rubric:: Returns

The key as a string in PEM format.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA','DSA', or 'DH'.

* priv_key_str - must be a valid key string in the PEM format.

.. _create-dh-param:

create_dh_parameters(*key_len*)
--------------------------------------

Creates parameters for generating a Diffie-Hellman (DH) private/public key pair.

.. rubric:: Returns

> A string in PEM format and can be passed to :ref:`create-asymmetric-private-key<create-priv-key>`.

Reviewer 3: Replace create-asymmetric-private-key => create_asymmetric_private_key

Author: All dashes changed to underscores.

Setting the global variable as a runtime value requires either the `SYSTEM_VARIABLES_ADMIN <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/privileges-provided.html#priv_system-variables-admin>`__ or the deprecated `SUPER <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/privileges-provided.html#priv_super>`__ privilege.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Variable Name
   * - :ref:`dh-threshold`

.. _dh-threshold:

.. rubric:: ``encryption_udf.dh_bits_threshold``

These variable sets the threshold limits for the :ref:`create-dh-param`. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer
   * - default
     - 10000

The range for this variable is from 1024 to 10,000. The default value is 10,000.

.. _dsa-threshold:

.. rubric:: `encryption_udf.dsa_bits_threshold`

> These variables set the threshold limits for :ref:`asymmetric_encrypt <asym-encrypt>`. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.

Reviewer 3: This sentence seems to be incorrect. I think it should be:
These variables set the threshold limits for create_asymmetric_priv_key.

Please confirm it with Yura

Author: Updated.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer
   * - default
     - 9984

The range for this variable is from 1,024 to 9,984. The default value is 9,984.

.. _rsa-threshold:

.. rubric:: `encryption_udf.rsa_bits_threshold`

> These variable sets the threshold limits for the :ref:`asymmetric_encrypt <asym-encrypt>`. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.

Reviewer 3: These variables set the ..

Reviewer 3: Also replace asymmetric_encrypt => create_asymmetric_priv_key

Author: fixed

.. rubric:: `encryption_udf.dsa_bits_threshold`

These variables set the threshold limits for :ref:`asymmetric_encrypt <asym_encrypt>`. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer
   * - default
     - 9984

The range for this variable is from 1,024 to 9,984. The default value is 9,984.

.. _rsa_threshold:

.. rubric:: `encryption_udf.rsa_bits_threshold`

These variable sets the threshold limits for the :ref:`asymmetric_encrypt <asym_encrypt>`. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer
   * - default
     - 16384

The range for this variable is from 1,024 to 16,384.

.. _function_examples:

.. rubric:: Examples

The following example sets the threshold variables, creates a private key, creates a public key, encrypts data, and decrypts data.

.. code-block:: mysql

    -- Set Global variable

>     mysql> SET GLOBAL encryption_udf.dh_bits_threshold = 4096;

Reviewer 3: Please add another line after this:
-- Set Global variable
mysql> SET GLOBAL encryption_udf.rsa_bits_threshold = 4096;

Author: added

    -- Create private key
    mysql> SET @private_key = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 3072);

    -- Create public key
    mysql> SET @public_key = create_asymmetric_pub_key('RSA', @private_key);

    -- Encrypt data using the private key (you can also use the public key)
    mysql> SET @ciphertext = asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', 'This text is secret', @private_key);

    -- Decrypt data using the public key (you can also use the private key)
    -- The decrypted value @plaintext should be identical to the original 'This text is secret'
    mysql> SET @plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', @ciphertext, @public_key);

The following example generates a digest, generates a digest signature, and verifies the signature against the digest:

.. code-block:: mysql

   -- Generate a digest string
   mysql> SET @digest = create_digest('SHA256', 'This is the text for digest');

   -- Generate a digest signature
   mysql> SET @signature = asymmetric_sign('RSA', @digest, @private_key, 'SHA256');

   -- Verify the signature against the digest
   -- The @verify_signature must be equal to 1
   mysql> SET @verify_signature = asymmetric_verify('RSA', @digest, @signature, @public_key, 'SHA256');

> The following examples creates symmetric keys using Diffie-Hellman (DH) parameters.

Reviewer 3: replace examples=> example

Author: Rewritten

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Function Name
   * - :ref:`asym-decrypt`
   * - :ref:`asym-derive`
   * - :ref:`asym-encrypt`
   * - :ref:`asym-sign`
   * - :ref:`asym-verify`
   * - :ref:`create-priv-key`
   * - :ref:`create-pub-key`
   * - :ref:`create-dh-param`
   * - :ref:`create-digest`

The following table describes the :ref:`encryption-variables` which can be used to set the minimum value or maximum value.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Variable Name
   * - :ref:`dh-threshold`
   * - :ref:`dsa-threshold`
   * - :ref:`rsa-threshold`

.. _install-functions:

Install `component_encryption_udf`
-------------------------------------------------

Use the `Install Component Statement <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/install-component.html>`__ to add the `component_encryption_udf` component. The functions and variables are available. The user-defined functions are auto-registered. There is no requirement to invoke ``CREATE FUNCTION ... SONAME ...``. Also, the :ref:`encryption-variables` are auto-registered when the component is installed.

The following is an example of the installation command:

.. code-block:: mysql

>     mysql> INSTALL COMPONENT 'file//component_encryption_udf':

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mysql> INSTALL COMPONENT 'file://component_encryption_udf':
```

Author: Fixed.

.. _asym-decrypt:

asymmetric_decrypt(*algorithm, crypt_str, key_str*)
-----------------------------------------------------------

Decrypts an encrypted string using the algorithm and a key string. 

.. rubric:: Returns

A plaintext as a string.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The following are the function's parameters:

* algorithm - encryption algorithm used to encrypt the string. Supports `RSA`. 

* key_str - a string in the PEM format. The key string must be the following:

  - Valid

  - Public or private key string that corresponds with the public or private key string used with the :ref:`asymmetric_encrypt<asym-encrypt>` function.

.. _asym-derive:

asymmetric_derive(pub_key_str, priv_key_str)
------------------------------------------------------------

Derives a symmetric key using a public key generated on one side and a private key generated on another.

.. rubric:: Returns

A key as a binary sting. 

.. rubric:: Parameters

> The ``pub_key_str`` must be a in the PEM format and generated using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``pub_key_str`` must be a public key in the PEM format and generated using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) algorithm.
```

Author: Added.

> The ``priv_key_str`` must be a in the PEM format and generated using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``priv_key_str`` must be a private key in the PEM format and generated using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) algorithm.
```

Author: Done.

.. _asym-encrypt:

asymmetric_encrypt(algorithm, str, key_str)
--------------------------------------------------------------

Encrypts a string using the algorithm and a key string. 

.. rubric:: Returns

A ciphertext as a binary string. 

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - encryption algorithm used to encrypt the string. Supports `RSA`. 

> * str - measured in bytes, the length of the string must not be greater than the key_str length - 11

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* str - measured in bytes, the length of the string must not be greater than the key_str modulus length in bytes - 11
```

Author: Added.

* key_str - a key (either private or public) in the PEM format

.. _asym-sign:

asymmetric_sign(algorithm, digest_str, priv_key_str, digest_type)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Signs a digest string using a private key string. 

.. rubric:: Returns

A signature is a binary string. 

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA' or 'DSA'.

* digest_str - the digest binary string that is signed. The string can be generated by invoking :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>`.

* priv_key_str - the private key used to sign the digest string. The key must be in the PEM format. 

* digest_type - the supported values are 

  .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1

>       * - OpenSSL 1.0.2 values

Reviewer: May be move this table into to `create-digest` sections. In my opinion it belongs there

Author: Updated.

      * - 'MD5'
        - 'BLAKE2B512'
      * - 'SHA1'
        - 'BLAKE2S256'
      * - 'SHA224'
        - 'RIPEMD'
      * - 'SHA256'
        - 'RMD160'
      * - 'SHA384'
        - 'SHAKE128'
      * - 'SHA512'
        - 'SHAKE256'
      * - 'MD4'
        - 'SM3'
      * - 'RIPEMD160'
        - 'WHIRLPOOL'

.. _asym-verify:

asymmetric_verify(algorithm, digest_str, sig_str, pub_key_str, digest_type)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Verifies whether the signature string matches the digest string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A ``1`` (success) or a ``0`` (failure).

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA' or 'DSA'.

* digest_str - the digest binary string and this string can be generated by invoking :ref:`create-digest<create-digest>`.

* sig_str - the signature binary string. This string can be generated by invoking :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>`.

* pub_key_str - the signer's public key string. This string must correspond to the private key passed to :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym-sign>` to generate the signature string. The string must be in the PEM format.

> * digest_type - the supported values are 'SHA224', 'SHA256', 'SHA384', and 'SHA512'.

Reviewer: Supported digests are those from `create-digest` table

Author: Updated.

.. _create-priv-key:

create_asymmetric_priv_key(algorithm, (key_len | dh_parameters))
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Generates a private key using the given algorithm and key length for RSA or DSA or Diffie-Hellman parameters (for DH). 

.. rubric:: Returns

The key as a string in PEM format.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA','DSA', or 'DH'.

* key_len - the supported key length values:

  - For RSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 16,384.

  - For DSA - the minium length is 1,024. The maximum length is 9,984.

  .. note:: The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. To change the key lengths, use either :ref:`rsa-threshold` or :ref:`dsa-threshold`.

> * dh_parameters - a Diffie-Hellman (DH) parameter. You can create a DH parameter with the :ref:`create-dh-parameter<create-dh-param>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* dh_parameters - a Diffie-Hellman (DH) parameter. You can create DH parameters with the :ref:`create-dh-parameter<create-dh-param>`.
```

Author: Done.

.. _create-pub-key:

create_asymmetric_pub_key(algorithm, priv_key_str)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Derives a public key from the given private key using the given algorithm.

.. rubric:: Returns

The key as a string in PEM format.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA','DSA', or 'DH'.

* priv_key_str - must be a valid key string in the PEM format.

.. _create-dh-param:

create_dh_parameters(key_len)
--------------------------------------

Creates parameters for generating a Diffie-Hellman (DH) private/public key pair.

.. rubric:: Returns

A string in PEM format and can be passed to :ref:`create-asymmetric-private-key<create-priv-key>`.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* key_len - the supported key length values are the following:

  - DH 

>   .. note:: Generating DH keys can take more time than generating RSA keys.

Reviewer: Also mention that :ref:`dsh-threshold` can be used to limit max bit length

Reviewer: Not addressed
```suggestion
  .. note:: Generating DH parameters can take more time than generating RSA / DSA keys. The parameters length limits are defined by OpenSSL. To change the max parameters lengths, use either :ref:`dh-threshold`.
```

      * - 'MD4'
        - 'SM3'
      * - 'RIPEMD160'
        - 'WHIRLPOOL'

* str - String used to generate the digest string.

.. _encryption-variables:

.. rubric:: Encryption threshold variables

The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. Server administrators can set the following MySQL system variables when the server starts to limit the maximum key length. The following variables are automatically registered when `component_encryption_udf` is installed.

Setting the global variable as a runtime value requires either the `SYSTEM_VARIABLES_ADMIN <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/privileges-provided.html#priv_system-variables-admin>`__ or the deprecated `SUPER <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/privileges-provided.html#priv_super>`__ privilege.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Variable Name
   * - :ref:`dh-threshold`

.. _dh-threshold:

.. rubric:: ``encryption_udf.dh_bit_threshold``

These variable sets the threshold limits for the :ref:`create-dh-param`.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer
   * - default

>      - 

Reviewer: default 10000

Author: Done.

>      - 

Reviewer 2: Remove extra " - "

Author: It's a blank - cannot remove it.

> The range for this variable is 1024 to 10000. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value. 

Reviewer 2: 1024 to 10000 -> from 1024 to 10000

Author: Done.

.. _dsa-threshold:

.. rubric:: `encryption_udf.dsa_bits_threshold`

> These variable sets the threshold limits for the :ref:`asym-decrypt`, :ref:`asym-encrypt`, :ref:`asym-sign`, :ref:`asym-verify`, :ref:`create-priv-key`, and :ref:`create-pub-key`.

Reviewer: This threshold affects only `create_asymmertic_priv_key('DSA', ...)`

Author: Updated.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer
   * - default

>      - 

Reviewer: default 9984

Reviewer: not addressed

>      - 

Reviewer 2: Remove extra " - "

Author: It's a blank - cannot remove it.

> The range for this variable is 1024 to 10000. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value. 

Reviewer 2: 1024 to 10000 -> from 1024 to 10000

Author: Done.

> The range for this variable is 1024 to 10000. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The range for this variable is 1024 to 9984. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value. 
```

Author: Updated

.. _rsa-threshold:

.. rubric:: `encryption_udf.rsa_bit_threshold`

> These variable sets the threshold limits for the :ref:`asym-decrypt`, :ref:`asym-encrypt`, :ref:`asym-sign`, :ref:`asym-verify`, :ref:`create-priv-key`, and :ref:`create-pub-key`.

Reviewer: This threshold affects only create_asymmertic_priv_key('RSA', ...)

Author: Updated.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer
   * - default

>      - 

Reviewer: default 16384

Author: Done

> The range for this variable is 1024 to 10000. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value. 

Reviewer 2: 1024 to 10000 -> from 1024 to 10000

Author: Done.

> The range for this variable is 1024 to 10000. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The range for this variable is 1024 to 16384. The value takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value. 
```

Author: Updated.

.. _function-examples:

.. rubric:: Examples

The following example sets the threshold variables, creates a private key, creates a public key, encrypts data, and decrypts data.

.. code-block:: mysql

    -- Set Global variable 

>     mysql> SET GLOBAL encryption_udf.dh_bits_threshold = 1024;

Reviewer: Setting here to a higher value as later you use 3072 in the examples
```suggestion
    mysql> SET GLOBAL encryption_udf.dh_bits_threshold = 4096;
```

Author: Updated.

.. code-block:: mysql
 
    -- Create private key
    mysql> SET @private_key = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 3072);

    -- Create public key

>     mysql> SET @public_key = create_asymmetric_pub_key('RSA', 3072);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mysql> SET @public_key = create_asymmetric_pub_key('RSA', @private_key);
```

Author: Updated.

    -- Encrypt data using the private key (you can also use the public key)
    mysql> SET @ciphertext = asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', 'This text is secret', @private_key);

    -- Decrypt data using the public key (you can also use the private key)

>     mysql> SET plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', @ciphertext, @public_key);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mysql> SET @plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', @ciphertext, @public_key);
```

Author: Fixed.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    -- Here decrypted value @plaintext should be identical to original 'This text is secret'
```

Author: Added.

The following example generates a digest, generates a digest signature, and verifies the signature against the digest:

.. code-block:: mysql

   -- Generate a digest string
   mysql> SET @digest = create_digest('SHA256', 'This is the text for digest');

   -- Generate a digest signature 
   mysql> SET @signature = asymmetric_sign('RSA', @digest, @private_key, 'SHA256');

   -- Verify the signature against the digest
   -- The @verify_signature must be equal to 1
   mysql> SET @verify_signature = asymmetric_verify('RSA', @digest, @signature, @public_key, 'SHA256');

The following examples create a symmetric keys using Diffie-Hellman secrets.

.. code-block:: mysql

   -- Generate a DH parameter

>    mysql> SET @dh-parameter = create_dh_parameters(3072);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   mysql> SET @dh_parameter = create_dh_parameters(3072);
```

Author: Fixed.

   -- Generate DH key pairs 
   mysql> SET @private_1 = create_asymmetric_priv_key('DH', @dh_parameter);
   mysql> SET @public_1 = create_asymmetric_pub_key('DH', @private_1);
   mysql> SET @private_2 = create_asymmetric_priv_key('DH', @dh_parameter);
   mysql> SET @public_2 = create_asymmetric_pub_key('DH', @private_2);

  -- Generate a symmetric key using the public_1 and private_2
  -- The @symetric_1 must be identical to @symetric_2
  mysql> SET symmetric_1 = asymmetric_derive(@public_1, @private_2);

  -- Generate a symmetric key using the public_2 and private_1

>     -- The @symetric_2 must be identical to @symetric_1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -- The @symetric_2 must be identical to @symetric_1
```

Author: Fixed.

  mysql> SET symmetric_2 = asymmetric_derive(@public_2, @private_1);

> The following example creates uses ``SET``, ``SELECT``, and ``INSERT``

Reviewer 2: The following example creates uses ``SET``, ``SELECT``, and ``INSERT`` -> this sentence seems to be incomplete.

Author: Fixed.

.. code-block:: mysql

>   mysql> SET @private-key1 = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 3072);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mysql> SET @private_key1 = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 3072);
```

Author: Fixed.

>   mysql> SELECT create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 3072) INTO @private-key2;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mysql> SELECT create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 3072) INTO @private_key2;
```

Author: Fixed.

>   mysql> INSERT INTO key-table VALUES(create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 3072));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mysql> INSERT INTO key_table VALUES(create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 3072));
```

Author: Fixed.

    
.. _uninstall-functions:

Uninstall `component_encryption_udf`
---------------------------------------

You can deactivate and uninstall the component using the `Uninstall Component statement <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/uninstall-component.html>`__. 

.. code-block:: mysql

>   mysql> UNINSTALL COMPONENT 'file://https://component_encryption_udf';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mysql> UNINSTALL COMPONENT 'file://component_encryption_udf';
```

Author: fixed.

.. _encryption-functions:

===============================================================================
Encryption functions
===============================================================================

Percona Server for MySQL 8.0.28-20 adds encryption functions and variables to manage the encryption range. The functions may take an algorithm argument. Encryption converts plaintext into ciphertext using a key and an encryption algorithm.

You can also use the user-defined functions with PEM format keys generated externally by the OpenSSL utility.

A digest uses plaintext and generates a hash value. This hash value can verify if the plaintext is unmodified. You can also sign or verify on digests to ensure that the original plaintext was not modified. You cannot decrypt the original text from the hash value.

When choosing key lengths, consider the following:

* Encryption strength increases with the key size and, also, the key generation time.

> * If performance is important and the functions are frequently used, use symmetric encryption. Symmetric encryption functions are faster than asymmetric encryption functions. Moreover, asymmetric encryption has restrictions on the maximum length of a message being encrypted. For example, for `RSA` the algorithm maximum message size is the key length in bytes (key length in bits / 8) minus 11). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If performance is important and the functions are frequently used, use symmetric encryption. Symmetric encryption functions are faster than asymmetric encryption functions. Moreover, asymmetric encryption has restrictions on the maximum length of a message being encrypted. For example, for `RSA` the algorithm maximum message size is the key length in bytes (key length in bits / 8) minus 11.
```

Author: Removed parenthesis after 11

The following table and sections describe the functions. For examples, see :ref:`function-examples`.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Function Name
   * - :ref:`asym_decrypt`
   * - :ref:`asym_derive`
   * - :ref:`asym_encrypt`
   * - :ref:`asym_sign`
   * - :ref:`asym_verify`
   * - :ref:`create_priv_key`
   * - :ref:`create_pub_key`
   * - :ref:`create_dh_param`
   * - :ref:`create_digest`

The following table describes the :ref:`encryption_variables` which can be used to set the maximum value for a key length based on the type of encryption.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Variable Name
   * - :ref:`dh_threshold`
   * - :ref:`dsa_threshold`
   * - :ref:`rsa_threshold`

.. _install_functions:

Install `component_encryption_udf`
-------------------------------------------------

Use the `Install Component Statement <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/install-component.html>`__ to add the `component_encryption_udf` component. The functions and variables are available. The user-defined functions and the :ref:`encryption_variables` are auto-registered. There is no requirement to invoke ``CREATE FUNCTION ... SONAME ...``.

> The ``INSERT`` privilege is required to run the ``INSTALL COMPONENT`` statement. To register the component, the operation adds a row to the ``mysql.component`` system table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``INSERT`` privilege on ``mysql.component`` system table is required to run the ``INSTALL COMPONENT`` statement. To register the component, the operation adds a row to this table.
```

Author: Updated.

The following is an example of the installation command:

.. code-block:: mysql

    mysql> INSTALL COMPONENT 'file://component_encryption_udf';

.. note::
  
    If you are :ref:`compile_from_source`, the Encryption UDF component is built by default when Percona Server for MySQL is built. Specify the ``-DWITH_ENCRYPTION_UDF=OFF`` cmake option to exclude it.

User-Defined Functions Described
----------------------------------------------------

.. _asym_decrypt:

asymmetric_decrypt(*algorithm, crypt_str, key_str*)
-----------------------------------------------------------

Decrypts an encrypted string using the algorithm and a key string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A plaintext as a string.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The following are the function's parameters:

> * algorithm - the encryption algorithm supports `RSA` to encrypt the string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* algorithm - the encryption algorithm supports `RSA` to decrypt the string.
```

Author: Updated

The ``priv_key_str`` must be a private key in the PEM format and generated using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) algorithm.

.. _asym_encrypt:

asymmetric_encrypt(*algorithm, str, key_str*)
--------------------------------------------------------------

Encrypts a string using the algorithm and a key string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A ciphertext as a binary string.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the encryption algorithm supports `RSA` to encrypt the string.

* str - measured in bytes. The length of the string must not be greater than the key_str modulus length in bytes - 11 (additional bytes used for PKCS1 padding)

* key_str - a key (either private or public) in the PEM format

.. _asym_sign:

asymmetric_sign(*algorithm, digest_str, priv_key_str, digest_type*)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Signs a digest string using a private key string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A signature is a binary string.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the encryption algorithm supports either `RSA` or `DSA` to encrypt the string.

> * digest_str - the digest binary string that is signed. Invoking :ref:`create_digest<create_digest>` generates the string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* digest_str - the digest binary string that is signed. Invoking :ref:`create_digest<create_digest>` generates the digest.
```

Author: Updated

* priv_key_str - the private key used to sign the digest string. The key must be in the PEM format.

* digest_type - the supported values are listed in the digest type table of :ref:`create_digest<create_digest>`.

.. _asym_verify:

asymmetric_verify(*algorithm, digest_str, sig_str, pub_key_str, digest_type*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Verifies whether the signature string matches the digest string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A ``1`` (success) or a ``0`` (failure).

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - supports either 'RSA' or 'DSA'.

> * digest_str - invoking :ref:`create_digest<create_digest>` generates the digest binary string and this string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* digest_str - invoking :ref:`create_digest<create_digest>` generates this digest binary string.
```

Author: Updated.

* sig_str - the signature binary string. Invoking :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym_sign>` generates this string.

* pub_key_str - the signer's public key string. This string must correspond to the private key passed to :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym_sign>` to generate the signature string. The string must be in the PEM format.

* digest_type - the supported values are listed in the digest type table of :ref:`create_digest<create_digest>`

.. _create_priv_key:

create_asymmetric_priv_key(*algorithm, (key_len | dh_parameters)*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Generates a private key using the given algorithm and key length for RSA or DSA or Diffie-Hellman parameters (for DH).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generates a private key using the given algorithm and key length for RSA or DSA or Diffie-Hellman parameters for DH.
```

Author: Updated.

.. rubric:: Returns

The key as a string in PEM format.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA', 'DSA', or 'DH'.

* key_len - the supported key length values are the following:

>   - RSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 16,384. The default value is 16,384.

Reviewer: The function does not have default parameters
```suggestion
  - RSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 16,384.
```

Author: The RSA section - removed the default.

>   - DSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 9,984. The default value is 9,984.

Reviewer: The function does not have default parameters.
```suggestion
  - DSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 9,984.
```

Author: DSA section - removed the default.

    .. note:: The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. To change the maximum key length, use either :ref:`rsa_threshold` or :ref:`dsa_threshold`.

* dh_parameters - Diffie-Hellman (DH) parameters. Invoking :ref:`create_dh_parameter<create_dh_param>` creates the DH parameters.

.. _create_pub_key:

create_asymmetric_pub_key(*algorithm, priv_key_str*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Derives a public key from the given private key using the given algorithm.

.. rubric:: Returns

The key as a string in PEM format.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA', 'DSA', or 'DH'.

* priv_key_str - must be a valid key string in the PEM format.

.. _create_dh_param:

create_dh_parameters(*key_len*)
--------------------------------------

Creates parameters for generating a Diffie-Hellman (DH) private/public key pair.

.. rubric:: Returns

A string in PEM format and can be passed to :ref:`create_asymmetric_private_key<create_priv_key>`.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

> * key_len - the range for the key length is from 1024 to 10,000. The default value is 10,000.

Reviewer: Again, no default function parameters
```suggestion
* key_len - the range for the key length is from 1024 to 10,000.
```

        - 'SHAKE128'
      * - 'SHA512'
        - 'SHAKE256'
      * - 'MD4'
        - 'SM3'
      * - 'RIPEMD160'
        - 'WHIRLPOOL'

* str - String used to generate the digest string.

.. _encryption_variables:

.. rubric:: Encryption threshold variables

The maximum key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. Server administrators can limit the maximum key length using the encryption threshold variables. 

The variables are automatically registered when `component_encryption_udf` is installed.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Variable Name
   * - :ref:`dh_threshold`

.. _dh_threshold:

.. rubric:: ``encryption_udf.dh_bits_threshold``

The variable sets the threshold limits for the :ref:`create_dh_parameters <create_dh_param>` user-defined function and takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer
   * - default
     - 10000

The range for this variable is from 1024 to 10,000. The default value is 10,000.

.. _dsa_threshold:

.. rubric:: `encryption_udf.dsa_bits_threshold`

> The variable sets the threshold limits for :ref:`create_asymmetric_priv_key <create_priv_key>` user-defined function and takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The variable sets the threshold limits for :ref:`create_asymmetric_priv_key <create_priv_key>` user-defined function when invoked with 'DSA' parameter and takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.
```

Author: Done.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer
   * - default
     - 9984

The range for this variable is from 1,024 to 9,984. The default value is 9,984.

.. _rsa_threshold:

.. rubric:: `encryption_udf.rsa_bits_threshold`

> The variable sets the threshold limits for the :ref:`create_asymmetric_priv_key <create_priv_key>` user-defined function and takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The variable sets the threshold limits for the :ref:`create_asymmetric_priv_key <create_priv_key>` user-defined function when invoked with 'RSA' parameter and takes precedence over the OpenSSL maximum length value.
```

Author: Updated.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - command-line
     - Yes
   * - scope
     - Global
   * - data type
     - unsigned integer
   * - default
     - 16384

> The range for this variable is from 1,024 to 16,384.

Reviewer: Just for consistency reasons with previous variables.
```suggestion
The range for this variable is from 1,024 to 16,384. The default value is 16,384.
```

Author: Done.

    -- Create public key
    mysql> SET @public_key = create_asymmetric_pub_key('RSA', @private_key);

    -- Encrypt data using the private key (you can also use the public key)
    mysql> SET @ciphertext = asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', 'This text is secret', @private_key);

    -- Decrypt data using the public key (you can also use the private key)
    -- The decrypted value @plaintext should be identical to the original 'This text is secret'
    mysql> SET @plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', @ciphertext, @public_key);

Code examples for the following operations: 

* generate a digest string

* generate a digest signature

* verify the signature against the digest

.. code-block:: mysql

   -- Generate a digest string
   mysql> SET @digest = create_digest('SHA256', 'This is the text for digest');

   -- Generate a digest signature
   mysql> SET @signature = asymmetric_sign('RSA', @digest, @private_key, 'SHA256');

   -- Verify the signature against the digest
   -- The @verify_signature must be equal to 1
   mysql> SET @verify_signature = asymmetric_verify('RSA', @digest, @signature, @public_key, 'SHA256');

Code examples for the following operations:

* generate a DH parameter

> * generate a DH key pair

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* generate two DH key pairs
```

Author: Updated

> * generate a symmetric key using the public_1 and private_2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* generate a symmetric key using the public_1 and the private_2
```

Author: Added.

.. _asym_verify:

asymmetric_verify(*algorithm, digest_str, sig_str, pub_key_str, digest_type*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Verifies whether the signature string matches the digest string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A ``1`` (success) or a ``0`` (failure).

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - supports either 'RSA' or 'DSA'.

* digest_str - invoking :ref:`create_digest<create_digest>` generates this digest binary string.

* sig_str - the signature binary string. Invoking :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym_sign>` generates this string.

* pub_key_str - the signer's public key string. This string must correspond to the private key passed to :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym_sign>` to generate the signature string. The string must be in the PEM format.

* digest_type - the supported values are listed in the digest type table of :ref:`create_digest<create_digest>`

.. _create_priv_key:

create_asymmetric_priv_key(*algorithm, (key_len | dh_parameters)*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Generates a private key using the given algorithm and key length for RSA or DSA or Diffie-Hellman parameters for DH. If needed, execute ``KILL [QUERY|CONNECTION] <id>`` to terminate either a long-lasting key generation or parameter generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generates a private key using the given algorithm and key length for RSA or DSA or Diffie-Hellman parameters for DH. For RSA or DSA, if needed, execute ``KILL [QUERY|CONNECTION] <id>`` to terminate a long-lasting key generation. DH key generation from existing parameters is a pretty quick operation, therefore, it does not make sense to terminate it with ``KILL``.
```

Author: Added.

* key_len - the supported key length values are the following:

  - RSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 16,384. 

  - DSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 9,984. 

    .. note:: The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. To change the maximum key length, use either :ref:`rsa_threshold` or :ref:`dsa_threshold`.

* dh_parameters - Diffie-Hellman (DH) parameters. Invoking :ref:`create_dh_parameter<create_dh_param>` creates the DH parameters.

.. _create_pub_key:

create_asymmetric_pub_key(*algorithm, priv_key_str*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Derives a public key from the given private key using the given algorithm.

.. rubric:: Returns

The key as a string in the PEM format.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA', 'DSA', or 'DH'.

* priv_key_str - must be a valid key string in the PEM format.

.. _create_dh_param:

create_dh_parameters(*key_len*)
--------------------------------------

Creates parameters for generating a Diffie-Hellman (DH) private/public key pair. If needed, execute ``KILL [QUERY|CONNECTION] <id>``

> to terminate either a long-lasting key generation or parameter generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to terminate a long-lasting parameters generation.
```

Author: Updated

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Verifies whether the signature string matches the digest string.

.. rubric:: Returns

A ``1`` (success) or a ``0`` (failure).

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - supports either 'RSA' or 'DSA'.

* digest_str - invoking :ref:`create_digest<create_digest>` generates this digest binary string.

* sig_str - the signature binary string. Invoking :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym_sign>` generates this string.

* pub_key_str - the signer's public key string. This string must correspond to the private key passed to :ref:`asymmetric_sign<asym_sign>` to generate the signature string. The string must be in the PEM format.

* digest_type - the supported values are listed in the digest type table of :ref:`create_digest<create_digest>`

.. _create_priv_key:

create_asymmetric_priv_key(*algorithm, (key_len | dh_parameters)*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Generates a private key using the given algorithm and key length for RSA or DSA
or Diffie-Hellman parameters for DH. For RSA or DSA, if needed, execute ``KILL

> [QUERY|CONNECTION] <id>`` to terminate either a long-lasting key generation. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[QUERY|CONNECTION] <id>`` to terminate a long-lasting key generation. The
```

Author: Fixed.

> DH key generation from existing parameters is quick operation. Therefore, if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DH key generation from existing parameters is a quick operation. Therefore, it
```

Author: Added.

* key_len - the supported key length values are the following:

  - RSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 16,384. 

  - DSA - the minimum length is 1,024. The maximum length is 9,984. 

    .. note:: The key length limits are defined by OpenSSL. To change the maximum key length, use either :ref:`rsa_threshold` or :ref:`dsa_threshold`.

* dh_parameters - Diffie-Hellman (DH) parameters. Invoking :ref:`create_dh_parameter<create_dh_param>` creates the DH parameters.

.. _create_pub_key:

create_asymmetric_pub_key(*algorithm, priv_key_str*)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Derives a public key from the given private key using the given algorithm.

.. rubric:: Returns

The key as a string in the PEM format.

.. rubric:: Parameters

The parameters are the following:

* algorithm - the supported values are 'RSA', 'DSA', or 'DH'.

* priv_key_str - must be a valid key string in the PEM format.

.. _create_dh_param:

create_dh_parameters(*key_len*)
--------------------------------------

Creates parameters for generating a Diffie-Hellman (DH) private/public key pair. If needed, execute ``KILL [QUERY|CONNECTION] <id>``

> to terminate either a long-lasting parameter generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to terminate a long-lasting parameters generation.
```

Author: Fixed.
